hello welcome to everyday HDR calm my
name is Blake Rudess and today I'm going
to talk about HDR toning in Photoshop
cs6 now you can do this similarly in cs5
you just might have to change some of
your settings a little bit but it's all
pretty much the same so recently I had a
newcomer to the blog his name is Larry
everyone say hi Larry Larry asked me
about HDR toning in Photoshop cs6 and I
typically don't do my tone mapping in
Photoshop I never didn't see us five and
I typically don't do it in cs6 because
to me tone mapping five bracketed
exposures in Photoshop takes a lot of
time and the product that I get is just
not nearly as strong as some of the
other products you can get out there but
it does have a place in my workflow it's
just typically not in my tone mapping
process I usually use it on single image
exposures to really bring it out some
detail and those single exposures for
instance this frog doesn't like to sit
still for too long maybe it's a toad I'm
not a biologist it on baffle me but my
wife took a picture of it I really liked
her picture and I was kind of jealous so
I had to throw my Makka lens on there
and get all up in its face but it's
smiling at me you can see him smiling
anyway I typically do a HDR high pass
layer with HDR Tony so it goes a little
something like this let's check it out
go to your history palette and go ahead
and press this little plus sign with the
page that's going to duplicate your
state as to where you are right now the
reason why I do that i'm going to show
you why is if i do my normal workflow
which is pressing ctrl J to do
non-destructive editing and then I go to
image and adjustments and go to HDR
toning it's going to flatten the lair
anyway but I want to preserve this state
that I was in that's why i duplicated in
the history pilot first press yes now
typically what I'm trying to do here is
make a high-pass sharpen layer it's the
high-pass part so I'm going to drop all
the shadow down and drop all the
highlights down drop all the vibrance
down and drop all the saturation down
it's going to look like black and white
and it's supposed to now let's go ahead
and start over up from the top here and
start playing with some settings I'm
going to increase the radius to about
100 105 110 it really there really isn't
much I don't know no real rhyme or
reason to what I'm doing here I'm really
Disick's para menteng to see what's
going to happen as I click through
things I don't like it what it looks
like when i press smooth M edges got to
leave the gamma about the same exposure
I might drop that down a little bit
because I really want a lot of medium
grey here and in the detail I'm going to
slam this detail up it looks nasty don't
judge please don't judge me it's too
high though to 60s too high let's go
around 197 it's rounded off number no
let's go 195 just for the sake of being
on a number of people like you know if
you say some like I'll be there in seven
minutes people don't like to hear that
they like to hear i'll be there in five
minutes so let's put it 195 so press ok
wait for it to convert the image now we
want the move tool so press the V key
for the move tool press the shift key
and click in the middle and drag it over
to the other image you can go ahead and
get rid of this now you don't need it
anymore press the Z key fit on screen
there's my original image this is my new
high pass sharpen layer and if you know
anything about high pass sharpening
you're going to want to do something
like soft light maybe maybe some hard
light ooh way too much and but if you
know if that's your style go ahead I
like soft light overlay it's still a
little too much to solve flight nice
clean I pass how does it look it's
already starting to look better but it
does need some tweaking now one of the
things that we brought in when we
brought this in was a little bit of
noise in our shadows easy to take care
of I'm actually going to do something
that most people probably don't do but
just go to filter go to noise and go to
dust and scratches again this is a high
pass level or high pass sharpen layer so
we aren't too worried about losing any
detail per se in the image
so Dustin scratch is actually an
acceptable thing to use just use a
radius of one for your pixels what
that's going to do is clean up any of
that noise that we were seeing up here
let's go back here see how it's clean up
that noise just a little bit I just you
know I mean oh now I want to hike up the
saturation a little bit so I'm going to
go to hue/saturation and I want to hike
up the saturation typically in his
eyeball which i think is in the Reds let
me let me take a look yep there's some
of the Reds so we'll go ahead and use it
a little bit of the Reds and then a
little bit yellows to to bring out some
the yellow and that I ball two okay but
I don't like what it's done to the area
around him so not a big problem I can
click on that mask I can press ctrl I
for invert now be for the brush tool I'm
on this layer mask I can paint in white
over his eye where I want that
saturation to come back very cool but I
also did like the fact that there was
some saturation coming through through
his skin to some lanuite hue/saturation
again make another hue/saturation there
and just kind of bring that saturation
up a little bit + 25 again people want
to be there five minutes not seven
minutes let's go plus 25 so it's still
doing a little too much to the eyeball
on too much saturation that I ballin out
doing that so I'm going to do is press
alt click on the mask that's on the hue
saturation layer below it and drag it up
or place it say yes and now i'm going to
invert that mask which is going to go
ahead and
push away all the saturation that was on
the eyeball because it's basically
inverse and that's below it go to curves
it's always good to the curves layer on
there and just play typically an s-curve
pull the black down a little bit and
pull the white up a little bit typically
it's good for you now if this tonemapped
high path sharpen layer is too much you
can always control it with the with the
opacity slider you can drop that opacity
down a little bit or bring it up a
little bit but the big question you have
to ask yourself here is are we better
off now than they were four years ago I
mean four minutes ago yeah four minutes
ago sorry it's a democratic talk or
republican whatever is going on I think
we are quick and drag on your layers and
you see we brought out the dynamic range
we haven't necessarily made this a high
dynamic range because it's multiple
exposures because of a frog or toad for
the sake of argument it's kind of
difficult to make five exposures of
because he liked to move so but we have
exploited his dynamic range we have
brought out the dynamic range that
existed there we've just exaggerated a
little bit exploited it however you want
to put it my name is Blake Rudess with
everyday HDR calm and this was HDR
toning in Photoshop cs6 a high-pass
layer to make a pseudo HDR it's a long
title so we'll just leave it at that
have a great weekend do some of this see
what you think leave me some feedback I
love the hearing it take everyone have a
great weekend